+++
title = "How to build an intelligent workplace with SharePoint? (Part 1)"
description = "Every industry and every organization are being reshaped by the digital transformation. During the last few decades, the world became wired together into a giant network. At the center of this change are people. Creating the right culture and upscaling employees is as important for digital transformation, as modernizing technology. Advances in cloud computing, mobility, and AI, along with modern workplace technologies, like Microsoft 365 help to realize the vision of an intelligent workplace for everyone."
date = 2019-06-18

[taxonomies]
tags = ["intelligent workplace", "sharepoint online"]
+++

SharePoint underpins the experiences across individuals, teams, and
organizations, powering content management and collaboration across
Microsoft 365. Statistics show 373% more SharePoint framework usage in
the last year.

SharePoint conference in Las Vegas 2019 was an exciting event, where new
features were announced, allowing to create an intelligent workplace for
the employees, embracing three areas:

-   Teamwork and business process
-   Employee engagement and communications
-   Search and content intelligence

During his keynote address Jeff Teper, Corporate Vice President in
charge of SharePoint, OneDrive, Office and Office Media Group, informed
that SharePoint is one of the largest cloud services in the world, and
it runs in 29 regions, 54 data centers on 180 000 servers, accessing
massive amount of Azure storage and compute. Actually, SharePoint is the
biggest customer of Azure storage in the company and in the world.\
There is no simple answer, what is SharePoint, as it is both an app and
a platform. It means you can enjoy existing features of an app or build
on top of it to give customers choice and innovation.

### Teamwork and business processes

Due to customers' need for holistic solutions tying all the Microsoft
products together, SharePoint is now integrated with OneDrive, Teams,
Stream, Yammer, etc. From a user's perspective, it means more convenient
ways of doing everyday tasks, like requesting files from others.
Right-click menu of a OneDrive folder includes *"Request files"* option.
When you choose it, a link to this folder is generated, and then can be
shared in any preferable form, via e-mail or collaboration tools.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/382.png)

*"Request files" option in OneDrive (Snapshot from the SharePoint
Virtual Conference)*

When your colleague follows the link, notification about file request
appears, along with a button to select files. Requested files are
uploaded directly to the pre-selected folder, with the name of the
person, who submitted it, appended before the file name. Organizing and
sorting through the uploaded files has never been easier.

While working on a Word document, you may need some help from others.
When you @-mention the person you need assistance from, he/she will get
a notification and a link to the document in question, without you ever
need to attach it manually. You can even create a link for one slide
from the presentation, right-clicking on it, and send it to point out
only to the changes, you've made in this particular slide.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/392.png)

*Create a link to this slide option (Snapshot from the SharePoint
Virtual Conference)*

As for today, OneDrive and SharePoint support nearly 330 file types for
viewing natively in the service, without the need to download any
additional apps.

Teamwork is impossible without Teams, so SharePoint is embedded there.
For example, under Files, there is all the metadata, like in SharePoint,
visually distinguished to easily find, figure out, and understand the
content. The full set of commands will allow syncing files to your
device straight from Teams wherever you go, especially if working
offline.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/390.png)

*SharePoint experience in Teams (Snapshot from the SharePoint Virtual
Conference)*

Among great improvement on the backend is that when you're editing every
other file in OneDrive and SharePoint, only the changes you've made are
automatically synced, instead of uploading all the file. It saves on
performance, network time, and certainly the battery life.

Simplifying business processes was another important point during the
conference, and Karuana Gatimu (Principal PM Manager, Customer Advocacy
Group, Microsoft) showed how AI can do the routine work for the
employees, while they can focus on the tasks, that brings more business
value. Her example was about Retail group making a seasonal change in
their storefronts.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/383.png)

*A SharePoint list within Teams (Snapshot from the SharePoint Virtual
Conference)*

The full SharePoint list is available inside Teams. Clicking on the
store from the list will bring you to the integrated application
gathering information from multiple different sources. So, you see
elements required for the storefront, picture of it, uploaded by the
employee of that store, annual vendor budget for this store, and a
recent invoice with the summarized data.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/384.png)

*Store details in one place (Snapshot from the SharePoint Virtual
Conference)*

Such a beautiful list is created with *Flow*. Now that Power Apps and
Flow are integrated with SharePoint, the horizons of business
optimization are broadening greatly.

Flow gives you connectivity among all the different services in
Microsoft 365. The list above was created with a flow wired to Azure
cognitive services (ACS). When employees are uploading pictures
of storefront display, ACS is analyzing these pictures against
an earlier created model, describing how they should look like. When it
has a certain degree of confidence it tags a file. The tagging of the
file and altering its properties gives the beautiful icons in the list,
showing which stores are doing displays the way they should.
ACS and Flow are freeing your team, as if the system is doing
this for you, then the people can be doing higher-impact work, like
lending business objectives with more speed or resolving a customer
issue, instead of reviewing every image that's coming in from around the
country.

Having this integrated experience in the communication tool, where the
team is collaborating is transformative.

*Excel spreadsheet* helps to start modeling data, but you can do more,
and *import it as the SharePoint list*, applying line-item security and
extending a business process even further.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/381.png)

*Import of a list from Excel into SharePoint (Snapshot from the
SharePoint Virtual Conference)*

The tool reads the data inside of Excel file and creates a data model,
that can be further refined. Every column can be modified form a *Single
line of text* into a *Choice*, or you can skip it and *Do not import*.
If the column contains *Number*, it can be edited as *Currency* or *Date
and Time*, so it's formatted correctly in the future list.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/385.png)

*Menu to modify the SharePoint list imported from Excel (Snapshot from
the SharePoint Virtual Conference)*

As a result of such refine, you will get a SharePoint list with
conditional formatting applied to it, which visualizes data, giving
insights from it, before you even start working. Quick edit button
allows to make changes and notify all the team about them.

If you want to learn more, take a look at the
[video](https://customers.microsoft.com/en-gb/story/marks-and-spencer-microsoft)
, how Marks&Spencer is doing similar stuff.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/387.png)

*SharePoint list with conditional formatting (Snapshot from the
SharePoint Virtual Conference)*

Security and governance of data are also constantly enhanced.
Classification labels are intended to manage data in a consistent way.
*Sensitivity* labels are applied for consistent security and access
policies, content marking, they control the privacy settings of a group,
and even the level of users' access from an unmanaged device.
*Retention* labels are responsible for retention policies across all
data.

SharePoint now supports full collaboration for protected documents. For
example, you can create a document with access restricted only for
Executive team security group. When you enter SharePoint document
library, the Sensitivity column will be your guide, showing which
documents are available only for limited user groups.

The next two new features prevent the overexposure of information. The
first one allows admin to create a DLP (Data loss prevention)
policy that blocks anonymous sharing of sensitive files.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/389.png)

*Sensitivity labels applied to Executive Team security group (Snapshot
from the SharePoint Virtual Conference)*

With this policy in place, only a limited set of sharing options will be
available for a document containing financial data. It will ensure that
the sensitive data is not overexposed because of the anonymous link
sharing.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/388.png)

*Limited anonymous link sharing (Snapshot from the SharePoint Virtual
Conference)*

The second feature allows admin to set a tenant-wide limit for how long
an external user can access shared content in a site. A site owner can
see the list of all external users, able to view information on the
site. Without changing the policy, an admin can Extend expiration or
Expire now, without the need to revoke access per site or per user
anymore.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/386.png)

*Easy external user 's rights expiration management (Snapshot from the
SharePoint Virtual Conference)*

As far as ease of management is concerned, some users were complaining
that the new SharePoint admin experience was missing some classic
features from the previous version. The full feature parity is now
restored, so the admin doesn't have to switch between the two
dashboards.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/391.png)

*Classic features in SharePoint admin experience (Snapshot from the
SharePoint Virtual Conference)*

The top of users' requests was the ability to change sites'
URLs, so this option was also added. When the URL is
changed in the Admin center, the content of the site remains the same,
and admin doesn't have to copy the content from the old site to the new
one. The links pointing to the previous URL will be redirected
to the new site.

The second part is
[here](https://o365hq.com/blog/how-to-build-an-intelligent-workplace-with-sharepoint-part-2)